This repository is for the degree project in CS (SU) 2024 spring semester

The thesis is about CIFAR-10 Classification Task Based on ResNet-18 and D-RISE Salience Map Analysis

Abstract of thesis

Deep learning, especially Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), has made significant achievements in image recognition and classification tasks. Residual Network (ResNet), a revolutionary neural network architecture developed from CNNs, excels in visual tasks such as image recognition and object detection. Given the complexity of deep learning networks and their operation as ``blackboxes'', the explainability of models has become a key issue in the field of AI. By using saliency maps to reveal key features during the model's processing, we can enhance our understanding and trust in the model's classification decisions. This thesis employs the ResNet-18 architecture for image classification on the CIFAR-10 dataset, created by the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research. The study aims to enhance the model’s explainability by demonstrating the importance of variables through saliency maps. This thesis not only validates the generalization ability of the model but also successfully reproduces and optimizes the Detector Randomized Input Sampling for Explanation (D-RISE) algorithm applied to the ResNet-18 classification task, which visually displays the key features captured by the model and reveals the model’s decision logic. Lastly, in the discussion section of the thesis, we give different proposals for the similarity score calculation method in the D-RISE algorithm to enhance the mathematical explainability behind the algorithm.
